# Traffic_Violation_Analysis

Through this project, our primary objective was to curb these traffic accidents by deriving some important information from the traffic violations data. This project was particularly important for us because it has the potential to touch human lives in every significant manner. For example, analyzing the traffic violations for a city/county/state we can derive some vital information about the violations around schools during prime hours. It is not safe to have high traffic violations around sensitive areas; therefore, the analysis presented in this project allow us to inform the policy makers to alter the current policies if needed.

Another important domain significantly affected by these traffic violations is the nation’s economy. Per a recent study, when a city is experiencing a hard economic cycle, they turn to traffic violations as a source of revenue. A 10% decrease in economic growth leads to an average 6.5% increase in the number of speeding tickets issued during the same period. Major regions like New York State brings in about $76 million in revenue every year in traffic tickets. We think it will be interesting to verify this information by evaluating data from the state of Maryland and reaching conclusions that will proof such findings.

While evaluating the data from the state of Maryland, we can also find out if more tickets are handed out at the end of each month. Also, does the policeman hand out fewer tickets in the rainy season as compared to the other seasons like winter and summer? These kinds of questions can help us derive an analysis to reach conclusions which will help us determine steps to fix a set of problems.
